OSDOCS#5384: Document the explicit list of required credential permissions for Azure (#56274)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/minimum-required-permissions-ipi-azure.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-account.adoc

[id="minimum-required-azure-permissions_{context}"]
= Required Azure permissions in installer-provisioned infrastructure

> To deploy and destroy an {product-title} cluster with installer-provisioned infrastructure, the service account requires the following permissions.

Author: Addressed

> To deploy and destroy an {product-title} cluster with installer-provisioned infrastructure, the service account requires the following permissions.

Author: Addressed

* `Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/securityRules/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/securityRules/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/securityRules/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/SOA/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/virtualNetworkLinks/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/virtualNetworkLinks/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/write`
====

> .Required permissions for creating health resources

Author: Addressed

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Activated/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/InProgress/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Pending/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Resolved/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Updated/action`
====

.Required permissions for creating subscription resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourceGroups/read`
* `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourcegroups/write`
* `Microsoft.Resources/tags/write`

> ====

Reviewer: Let's split them into 2 

- Required permissions for creating resource group
```
`Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourceGroups/read`
`Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourcegroups/write`
```

- Required permissions for resource tagging
```
`Microsoft.Resources/tags/write`
```

Author: Addressed

.Required permissions for creating storage resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/write`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/write`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/delete`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/write`
====

> Following are the permissions required for destroying the cluster.

Author: Addressed

====

.Required permissions for deleting compute resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Compute/disks/delete`
* `Microsoft.Compute/galleries/delete`
* `Microsoft.Compute/galleries/images/delete`
* `Microsoft.Compute/galleries/images/versions/delete`
* `Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting identity management resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting network resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Network/dnszones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/virtualNetworkLinks/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/delete`
====

> .Required permissions for deleting health resources

Author: Addressed

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Activated/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Resolved/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Updated/action`
====

> .Required permissions for deleting subscription resources

Author: Addressed

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourcegroups/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting storage resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/delete`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action`
====

> .Additional permissions for creating marketplace virtual machine resources

Reviewer 2: got it, I will update the status once there is any progress for marketplace image testing.

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.MarketplaceOrdering/offertypes/publishers/offers/plans/agreements/read`
* `Microsoft.MarketplaceOrdering/offertypes/publishers/offers/plans/agreements/write`
====

> .Additional permissions for creating compute resources

Author: Optional sounds appropriate. Addressed

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/read`
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/write`
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/delete`
* `Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/read`
* `Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/write`
* `Microsoft.Compute/diskEncryptionSets/delete`
====

.Additional resources for creating key vault resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/read`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/write`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/delete`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/deploy/action`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/keys/read`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/keys/write`

> ====

Author: Agree. Addressed

> 

Author: Addressed

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-account.adoc

[id="minimum-required-azure-permissions_{context}"]
= Required Azure permissions in installer-provisioned infrastructure

> When you assign the contributor and user access administrator roles to the service principal, you automatically grant all the required permissions. To deploy and destroy an {product-title} cluster with installer-provisioned infrastructure, the service principal requires the following permissions.

Author: Addressed

> Following are the permissions required for creating the {product-title} cluster.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to mention that those permissions are only applicable for azure Public Cloud?  As this doc is also used to create account for Azure GovCloud, but we only verify them on Azure Public Cloud. @chiragkyal WDYT?

Reviewer: Interesting! yeah we can mention that it is only applicable for Azure public cloud. So it would be like :

`Following are the permissions required for creating the {product-title} cluster in Azure Public Cloud`, right ?

Reviewer 2: It looks good to me.

Author: Addressed

Author: Addressed

.Required permissions for creating authorization resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Authorization/policies/audit/action`
* `Microsoft.Authorization/policies/auditIfNotExists/action`
* `Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/read`
* `Microsoft.Authorization/roleAssignments/write`
====

.Required permissions for creating compute resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/read`
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/write`

> * `Microsoft.Compute/images/delete`

Reviewer 2: Following 3 permissions are not required, but not sure if they are needed with marketplace image, will check when marketplace image can be tested.
```
Microsoft.Compute/images/read
Microsoft.Compute/images/write
Microsoft.Compute/images/delete

```

Reviewer: Yes, and I don't think they are present in the required list in the google doc, they are present in optional list. 
To clarify: These 3 are optional for IPI, but required for UPI

Author: Addressed

====

.Required permissions for creating resource tags
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resources/tags/write`
====

.Required permissions for creating storage resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/write`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/write`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/delete`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/write`
====

.Optional permissions for creating marketplace virtual machine resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.MarketplaceOrdering/offertypes/publishers/offers/plans/agreements/read`
* `Microsoft.MarketplaceOrdering/offertypes/publishers/offers/plans/agreements/write`
====

.Optional permissions for creating compute resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/read`
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/write`
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/delete`
====

> .Optional resources for enabling user-defined disk encryption set

Reviewer: Please change it to : "Optional permissions for enabling user-defined disk encryption set"

And as discussed in [CORS-2559](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CORS-2559), please add `Microsoft.Features/providers/features/register/action` here.

Author: Addressed

====

> .Optional resources for creating key vault resources

Reviewer 2: To enable user-defined disk encryption set, permissions to create diskencryptionset and keyvault are required. Can we merged both two parts into one "Optional permission for enabling user-defined disk encryption set"? It is easy to get permission list if enabling user-defined disk encryption set.

Reviewer 2: And step5 in  [Finalizing user-managed encryption after installation](https://56274--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-customizations.html#finalizing-encryption_installing-azure-customizations) maybe also need to be updated, user can choose role "Contributor" or custom role?

Reviewer: >To enable user-defined disk encryption set, permissions to create diskencryptionset and keyvault are required. Can we merged both two parts into one "Optional permission for enabling user-defined disk encryption set"? It is easy to get additional permission list if enabling user-defined disk encryption set. @chiragkyal WDYT?

Thanks, this sounds better I believe, we can merge them. 

>And step5 in [Finalizing user-managed encryption after installation](https://56274--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-customizations.html#finalizing-encryption_installing-azure-customizations) maybe also need to be updated, user can choose role "Contributor" or custom role?

Can we write like Step 2 ? `--role "<privileged_role>"` , so that we don't need to add a separate `NOTE` again.

Reviewer 2: > Can we write like Step 2 ? --role "<privileged_role>" , so that we don't need to add a separate NOTE again.

Agree.

Author: Addressed

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/read`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/write`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/delete`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/deploy/action`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/keys/read`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/keys/write`
====

> Following are the permissions required for deleting the cluster.

Author: Addressed

====

.Required permissions for deleting compute resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Compute/disks/delete`
* `Microsoft.Compute/galleries/delete`
* `Microsoft.Compute/galleries/images/delete`
* `Microsoft.Compute/galleries/images/versions/delete`
* `Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting identity management resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting network resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Network/dnszones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/virtualNetworkLinks/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/delete`
====

> .Required permissions for checking health resources

Author: Addressed

> .Required permissions for checking health resources

Reviewer: Seems like not applied.

> .Required permissions for checking health resources

Author: Addressed -sorry missed it

> .Required permissions for checking health resources

Reviewer: Not sure why, but it's still missing. Is it from my side only ?

> .Required permissions for checking health resources

Author: It was from my side. Addressed

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Activated/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Resolved/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Updated/action`
====

.Required permissions for deleting resource groups
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourcegroups/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting storage resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/delete`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action`
====

[NOTE]
====

> You can create a custom role with all the permissions and assign that custom role to the service principal. To create a custom role in the Azure portal, see the Azure custom roles in the Azure documentation.

Author: We cannot add links in a module as per style guide rules hence I added the link in the assembly where we can add links. https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/56274/files#diff-c58a2fc83cc3d738a6c5a8688d67c55710ea53f0bd329a51c24e49309208fb28R50

> You can create a custom role with all the permissions and assign that custom role to the service principal. To create a custom role in the Azure portal, see the Azure custom roles in the Azure documentation.

Author: Addressed - we can add external links in the modules.

* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/virtualNetworkLinks/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/delete`
====

.Required permissions for checking health of resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Activated/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Resolved/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Updated/action`
====

.Required permissions for deleting resource groups
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourcegroups/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting storage resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/delete`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action`
====

[NOTE]
====
You can create a custom role with all the permissions and assign that custom role to the service principal. To create a custom role in the Azure portal, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/custom-roles[Azure custom roles] in the Azure documentation.

> ====

Reviewer: @jinyunma as discussed over slack, we will add a separate Note here. 

```
- For cluster installation, the permissions should be scoped to subscription level, and later on can be re-scoped to the installer created resource group level. If the Public DNS zone is present in different resource group, then Network DNS zone related permissions should always be subscription level.

- Azure identity will get Contributor role by the installer.

- For cluster deletion, all the permissions can be scoped to subscription level.

```

This is be added only for IPI @xenolinux FYI

Author: @chiragkyal We are removing the existing note and adding a new note right?

Reviewer: We will add a new note just after the existing note.

Author: Addressed

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-account.adoc

[id="minimum-required-azure-permissions_{context}"]
= Required Azure permissions in installer-provisioned infrastructure

When you assign the `Contributor` and `User Access Administrator` roles to the service principal, you automatically grant all the required permissions. To deploy and destroy an {product-title} cluster with installer-provisioned infrastructure, the service principal requires the following permissions.

> Following are the permissions required for creating the {product-title} cluster on Azure public cloud. You can use the same permissions to create the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.

Reviewer 2: Since network DNS zones related permissions are not required for private cluster. Maybe we can reword here.

You can use the same permissions to create the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.
=> 
You can use following permissions but remove network DNS zone related permissions to create the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.

@xenolinux @chiragkyal  any suggestion?

Author: Addressed - Added the note for removing the dnszones related permissions for the private cluster

* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/write`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/delete`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/deploy/action`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/keys/read`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/keys/write`
* `Microsoft.Features/providers/features/register/action`
====

.Optional permissions for installing a private cluster with Azure Network Address Translation (NAT)
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Network/natGateways/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/natGateways/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/natGateways/write`
====

.Optional permissions for installing a private cluster with Azure firewall
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Network/azureFirewalls/applicationRuleCollections/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/azureFirewalls/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/azureFirewalls/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/routes/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/routes/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/peer/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/virtualNetworkPeerings/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/virtualNetworkPeerings/write`
====

> Following are the permissions required for deleting the {product-title} cluster on Azure public cloud. You can use the same permissions to delete the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.

Reviewer 2: Since network DNS zones related permissions are not required for private cluster. Maybe we can reword here.

You can use the same permissions to delete the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.
=>
You can use following permissions but remove network DNS zone related permissions to delete the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.

@xenolinux @chiragkyal any suggestion?

Author: Instead can we add a note somewhere to skip those permissions when deleting a private cluster?

Reviewer: If it's possible to add a NOTE inside the collapsible, then that would be great.

Author: @chiragkyal @jinyunma Added two notes for creating and deleting the private {product-title} cluster on Azure. 
https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/56274/files#diff-c82de66f7c129811e1de419d2c8b04c6cf8429d036db2acffc36f43e606fdcbaR237

https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/56274/files#diff-c82de66f7c129811e1de419d2c8b04c6cf8429d036db2acffc36f43e606fdcbaR94

Author: Added the note outside of the collapsible block

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-account.adoc

[id="minimum-required-azure-permissions_{context}"]
= Required Azure permissions for installer-provisioned infrastructure

When you assign `Contributor` and `User Access Administrator` roles to the service principal, you automatically grant all the required permissions.

> If you do not assign the `Contributor` and `User Access Administrator` roles to the service principal, the following permissions are required for creating an {product-title} cluster on Microsoft Azure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your organization's security policies require a more restrictive set of permissions, you can create a custom role with the necessary permissions. The following permissions are required for creating an {product-title} cluster on Microsoft Azure.
```
Minor suggestion from Mike Pytlak so that users understand why they would want to use these permissions. Apply this to the UPI procedure as well please. Sorry for having you edit this line twice.

Reviewer: Please update the UPI part also.

Author: Done

====
[NOTE]
====
The following permissions are not required to delete a private {product-title} cluster on Azure.

* `Microsoft.Network/dnszones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/delete`
====

.Required permissions for checking the health of resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Activated/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Resolved/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Updated/action`
====

.Required permissions for deleting resource group
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourcegroups/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting storage resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/delete`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action`
====

[NOTE]
====
You can create a custom role with all the permissions and assign that custom role to the service principal. To create a custom role in the Azure portal, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/custom-roles[Azure custom roles] in the Azure documentation.

> ====

Reviewer 3: I believe this note is no longer needed since you added the information to the start of this module.

Author: Addressed

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-account.adoc

> [id="minimum-required-azure-permissions_{context}"]

Reviewer 4: This ID is the same as the one in modules/minimum-required-permissions-upi-azure.adoc. Please change both module IDs so that they match the corresponding filename. Ideally, they would also match the module title, but having them match the filename is more important.

This one should be: `[id="minimum-required-permissions-ipi-azure_{context}"]`

= Required Azure permissions for installer-provisioned infrastructure

When you assign `Contributor` and `User Access Administrator` roles to the service principal, you automatically grant all the required permissions.

> Following are the permissions required for creating the {product-title} cluster on Azure public cloud. You can use the same permissions to create the private {product-title} cluster on Azure public cloud.

Author: Agree. We can skip the sentence. 
Addressed

* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/SOA/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/virtualNetworkLinks/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/virtualNetworkLinks/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/subnets/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/write`
====
[NOTE]
====
You must remove the following permissions while creating the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.

* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnszones/CNAME/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnszones/read`
====

> .Required permissions for checking health of resources

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Required permissions for checking the health of resources
```

Author: Addressed

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Activated/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/InProgress/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Pending/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Resolved/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Updated/action`
====

> .Required permissions for creating resource group

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Required permissions for creating resource groups
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Required permissions for creating a resource group
```
Minor fix here

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resources/tags/write`
====

.Required permissions for creating storage resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/write`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/write`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/delete`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/write`
====

.Optional permissions for creating marketplace virtual machine resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.MarketplaceOrdering/offertypes/publishers/offers/plans/agreements/read`
* `Microsoft.MarketplaceOrdering/offertypes/publishers/offers/plans/agreements/write`
====

.Optional permissions for creating compute resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Compute/availabilitySets/write`
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/read`
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/write`
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/delete`
====

> .Optional permissions for enabling user-defined disk encryption set

Reviewer 2: I checked again the doc, looks better to reword to `enabling user-managed encryption` to keep consistent with https://56274--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/installing/installing_azure/enabling-user-managed-encryption-azure.html, and more accurate, because not only disk encryption set need to be created, also need to create keyvault.

Author: Addressed

* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/write`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/delete`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/deploy/action`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/keys/read`
* `Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/keys/write`
* `Microsoft.Features/providers/features/register/action`
====

.Optional permissions for installing a private cluster with Azure Network Address Translation (NAT)
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Network/natGateways/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/natGateways/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/natGateways/write`
====

.Optional permissions for installing a private cluster with Azure firewall
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Network/azureFirewalls/applicationRuleCollections/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/azureFirewalls/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/azureFirewalls/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/join/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/routes/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/routes/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/routeTables/write`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/peer/action`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/virtualNetworkPeerings/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/virtualNetworkPeerings/write`
====

> Following are the permissions required for deleting the {product-title} cluster on Azure public cloud. You can use the same permissions to delete the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following permissions are required for deleting an {product-title} cluster on Microsoft Azure. You can use the same permissions to delete a private {product-title} cluster on Azure.
```

Author: Addressed

====

.Required permissions for deleting identity management resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting network resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Network/dnszones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/virtualNetworkLinks/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/delete`
====
[NOTE]
====
You must remove the following permissions while deleting the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.

* `Microsoft.Network/dnszones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/delete`

> ====

Reviewer: I think your wording looks better to me, and these permissions are not required for destroying a private cluster.

> ====

Author: Addressed

> .Required permissions for checking health of resources

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Required permissions for checking the health of resources
```

Author: Addressed

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Activated/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Resolved/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Updated/action`
====

> .Required permissions for deleting resource group

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Required permissions for deleting resource groups
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Required permissions for deleting a resource group
```
Minor nit

[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourcegroups/delete`
====

.Required permissions for deleting storage resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/delete`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action`
====

[NOTE]
====
You can create a custom role with all the permissions and assign that custom role to the service principal. To create a custom role in the Azure portal, see link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/custom-roles[Azure custom roles] in the Azure documentation.
====

[NOTE]
====

> For installing the {product-title} cluster, you must scope the permissions to subscription level. Later, you can re-scope these permissions to the installer created resource group level. If the public DNS zone is present in a different resource group, then the network DNS zone related permissions must always be at subscription level.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To install {product-title} on Azure, you must apply the permissions to your subscription. Later, you can re-apply these permissions to the installer created resource group. If the public DNS zone is present in a different resource group, then the network DNS zone related permissions must always be applied to your subscription.
```
Rewording suggestion for clarity

Author: Addressed

> By default, the {product-title} installer assigns the Azure identity the `Contributor` role.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the {product-title} installation program assigns the Azure service principal the `Contributor` role.
```
@jinyunma is my terminology correct here? I'm looking for a more specific term than "identity".

Reviewer: @bscott-rh I think Azure identity is the correct term here, and it should not be service principal. Please check [here](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/installing/installing_azure/installing-azure-user-infra.html#installation-azure-create-resource-group-and-identity_installing-azure-user-infra).

> For deleting the {product-title} cluster, you can scope all the permissions to a subscription level.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can apply all the permissions to your subscription when deleting an {product-title} cluster.
```
Rewording suggestion

Author: Addressed

* `Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourcegroups/write`
====

.Required permissions for creating resource tags
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resources/tags/write`
====

.Required permissions for creating storage resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/blobServices/containers/write`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/write`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/fileServices/shares/delete`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/listKeys/action`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/read`
* `Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/write`
====

.Optional permissions for creating marketplace virtual machine resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.MarketplaceOrdering/offertypes/publishers/offers/plans/agreements/read`
* `Microsoft.MarketplaceOrdering/offertypes/publishers/offers/plans/agreements/write`
====

.Optional permissions for creating compute resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/read`
* `Microsoft.Compute/images/write`

> * `Microsoft.Compute/availabilitySets/write`

Author: Addressed

* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/loadBalancers/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkInterfaces/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/networkSecurityGroups/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/privateDnsZones/virtualNetworkLinks/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/publicIPAddresses/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/virtualNetworks/delete`
====
[NOTE]
====
You must remove the following permissions while deleting the private {product-title} cluster on Azure.

* `Microsoft.Network/dnszones/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/A/delete`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/read`
* `Microsoft.Network/dnsZones/CNAME/delete`
====

.Required permissions for checking health of resources
[%collapsible]
====
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Activated/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Resolved/action`
* `Microsoft.Resourcehealth/healthevent/Updated/action`
====

> .Required permissions for deleting resource groups

Author: Addressed
